the United Nations top court has ruled
that Israel settlements in the
Palestinian territories do break
international law and must be abandoned
now the court found that Israel's
occupation amounted to annexation and
that Palestinians were systematically
discriminated against in the occupied
territories The Advisory opinion is not
binding but comes as pressure grows on
Israel over its war in Gaza the UN
General Assembly asked the international
court of justice in 2022 to assess
Israel's occupation settlement and
annexation of Palestinian
lands opion so let's get more from our
correspondent at Lucia Schon at the icg
in the ha welcome Lucia tell us more
about what the judge has been
saying yes hi so the judges have just
ended their readout of this advisory
opinion and they have said that the
continued presence of the state of
Israel in the Palestinian occupied
territories is UN law ful also that all
settlement activities must be seized
immediately new settlement activities
are not allowed to take place and also
settlers should be
evacuated um we have also heard from the
court that uh other states should do
nothing to help the situation and should
not recognize this situation um as as
helping it to continue and then finally
the court has also asked the United
Nations General Assembly who who has
asked for the for this advisory opinion
uh to take steps to um end um the the
presence of Israel in these areas um and
also the security
Council okay so given that this ruling
is is nonbinding will it have any
consequences yeah so even though the
court has addressed people especially
the United National General Assembly
this does not mean that this is is
binding so that means it is not saying
Israel is bound by the court to do X or
Y uh nevertheless it does have an impact
and you can already see it now because
there are the First Reactions uh coming
from the Palestinian sides that hailed
this as a great day uh for them and also
the Prime Minister the israelian Prime
Minister Netanyahu has taken uh to X and
said that the country isra cannot be an
occupier in its own land so it does play
a role on the political level but it
might also play a role on the legal
level so we have heard that countries
should not do anything to kind of give a
green light for the existing situation
and this could be for example in areas
such as trade treaties or tariff
treaties illegal expert told me that
this will put um other countries in a
situation where they have to carefully
uh think about how they do it to be in
compliance with international law and of
course this does put pressure on Israel
okay thank you for that Lucia Lucia
Shulton in the
ha as we've been hearing the un's
request to the court to assess Israel's
presence in the Palestinian territories
dates back to 2022 war in Gaza has
brought an added attention to the
proceedings more than 50 countries
submitted arguments in the
case the aftermath of an Israeli raid in
the West Bank earlier this month such
raids have become an almost daily
occurrence in what Israel says is an
operation to root out militants armed
with bulldozers they destroy Palestinian
homes the West Bank is considered
occupied under international
law others have their homes destroyed
because they were built without an
Israeli permit DW talked to a family in
East Jerusalem last month who had
received an evacuation notice their home
slated for
Destruction it was one of 13 demolition
orders issued by the Israeli authorities
just that
Day in 1967 during The Six Day War
Israel seized control of the West Bank
along with other territories and annexed
East Jerusalem in 2022 the UN General
Assembly asked the world Court to look
at Israel's occupation of these two
areas the illegal building of Israeli
settlements was one factor raised by
many of the governments that delivered
arguments in the casee even the United
States admitted that the settlements are
inconsistent with international
law settlements are strewn across the
West Bank housing over half a million is
Ry settlers an additional
220,000 settlers live in East Jerusalem
which has changed the demographics of
the area Israel views the whole of
Jerusalem as its capital but under
internation law Israel's takeover of
East Jerusalem with its holy sites is
illegal it's especially contentious as
the Palestinians view East Jerusalem as
the capital of their future
State as for the West Bank it's partly
controlled by the Palestinian Authority
but Israel maintains overall control
including the territory's borders
different zones are separated by walls
and checkpoints limiting movement for
Palestinians Palestinian Farmers have
complained that this Patchwork of zones
creates unfair access to resources like
water meanwhile Jewish settlers are
accused of attacking crops property and
people most of the 52 governments that
delivered arguments in the case urge the
judges to declare Israel's occupation
illegal